Project Reflection

* How does your project use AI to help people with their finances in a way that hasn't been done before?
     			
Not everyone has access to large investment firms which demand high fees and minimum investment requirements. 
That's why I envisioned creating an analysis and recommendation app accessible to all, offering investment suggestions that people can explore further.
We created multiple portfolios based on top performing stocks from the S&P index, and then used CAPM analysis to elect the stocks or assets in these portfolios. 
Then, we feed this into LSTM, the AI component of this project, to predict the performance of these stocks. 
This project serves as an accessible resource that combines not only the CAPM analysis but uses the power of the AI LSTM. 
While researching preexisting analysis tools, most stopped at CAPM analysis yet we took a step further, combining the LSTM component to predict performance, 
which is important to present as an accessible resource for all to create successful portfolios.

* Describe a challenge you faced. How did you overcome it? How did you reach out for help?

My prior experience in AI ML is mostly in python, so I initially sought to develop this project in python. 
However, I was unable to find the libraries to perform the CAPM analysis in python so I switched to using the R language for creating this project. 
Since R was a new language for me, I had to o extra research on my part to familiarize myself with the language. 
In addition, I had to develop my understanding of investment banking terminology while creating my project, which was a hurdle for me as this subject was new to me. 
To aid in my understanding of this topic I utilized online resources such as videos and articles to help me gain a good foundation on 
the concepts of investment banking that would help to to create an effective  portfolio optimizer.

* What did you learn from this process that will impact the way you interact with technology in the future?

My project added on to previous models by adding the AI, LSTM , component that many existing portfolio optimizers did not have. 
This AI component helped to take its effectiveness to the next level. 
Now I realize that similar to investment baking and portfolio building, skills or tasks in any field can be optimized with the help of AI. 
Although we can never truly be purely dependent on AI, the mix of both human analysis and that of AI develops the complexity and efficiency of any model. 
So, any task that society completes daily can be optimized and improved with the addition of AI, even on smaller scales, 
combined with the preexisting human experience with the task that creates an effective product or optimizes the task further.

* Why did you choose this format for your project?

My project can expanded and improved on further in the future to create a more refined product that can possibly be deployed into an application. 
This way, even people who do not qualify for existing investment banking services because of their socio-economic 
status or people who lack adequate knowledge to build a diverse portfolio themselves can gain access to this resource. 
This accessibility reduces inequalities in investment banking helps to provide a tangible resource for all to improve, create, and build onto their portfolios. 
However, the tangible resource could not be provided if I chose a different formate such as a presentation, song, poem, poster, animation, or piece of writing. 
Thus, I chose the format of writing a program that provides this accessibility and can be expanded into this tangible resource to reduce inequalities for all in investment banking.
